A business is a complex system made up of many different units and processes.
In order to identify opportunities for data science across a business,
it's helpful to use a framework that helps organize the complexity of that business.
One such framework is Michael Porter's value chain.
In his classic text from 1985 titled Competitive Advantage,
Porter introduced the value chain as a series of
activities that a business performs in order to create value for its customers.
The value chain divides
a company's primary operations into categories such as; inbound logistics,
operations, outbound logistics, marketing and sales,
and service after the sale.
Four additional activities identified as supports for the main value chain include,
firm infrastructure, human resource management,
technology development, and procurement.
By focusing on each individual components of the value chain,
we might identify opportunities for data science.
We will walk through an example of this process towards the end of this lesson.
A second framework for identifying opportunities for data science within
the business mirrors one of
the company's core financial statements, the income statement.
This is also referred to as a profit and loss statement,
or more colloquially, a P&L.
On an income statement,
operations are represented as either contributing to revenue or expenses.
The P&L identifies the main categories of revenue producing activities,
such as, sales revenue,
service revenue, and other revenue,
as well as different categories of expenses,
such as, advertising expenses,
cost of goods sold,
employee benefits, payroll, and research and development.
By identifying subcategories of expenses and revenues,
the P&L can provide a guide for identifying opportunities that mirror
the largest sources of revenue and contributors to expenses for the company.